# gosh changes between v1.17.18 and v1.18.3

The repository affected is github.com/nickwells/utilities

The big changes are the addition of the gosh.snippet command for installing
the standard snippet set and the addition of the before-inner and after-inner
sections which allow more control over the generared code.

There are numerous improvements generated by the use of newer versions of
imported packages, particularly useful is that snippet lists are
automatically paged, just like the help output.

You might also be interested in the new edit-repeat parameter which will
prompt you to edit the file again after the program has run. It's not a REPL
exactly since Go code is compiled but it does allow you to quickly iterate
over changes.

# v1.17.18

- Fixed a bug where only supplying an HTTP handler and no further code would
  be rejected due to there being no code to run.

# v1.17.19

- New standard snippets have been added: perc for printing percentage values
  and /mem/... for reporting memory usage.
- Some minor documentation improvements.

# v1.17.20

- Minor reformatting.
- Use the latest package versions.

# v1.17.21

- The 'before' section of code appears after the declaration of the lists of
  args or files giving access to these values.
- Improve the snippet documentation for the mem snippets.
- Some changes to the gosh comments.

# v1.18.0

- Add the gosh.snippet command for installing the standard snippet set
- Move the snippets from gosh to gosh.snippet
- Add a new snippet: ruler for printing a line measuring out columns
- Add the before-inner and after-inner sections allowing code to be inserted
  between the outer and inner loops when processing a list of files.
- Rearranged the help message to focus more on code-inserting parameters.
- Refactoring the code.

# v1.18.1

- Add a parameter to set the name of the generated program.
- Add a parameter to repeatedly edit the gosh-generated code.
- Comments are no longer automatically added to the generated code and you
  need to ask for them to be added. A new parameter has been added to do
  this.
- Parameters can now be passed to the 'go build' command.
- gosh no longer uses 'go run' to execute the program, now it builds the
  executable and then runs it as a separate step.


# v1.18.2

- gosh.snippet produces a more concise report of the files removed or
  renamed.
  
# v1.18.3

- Some small improvements to the verbose message
